##### Quiz 02 (26/2) -- COGS 501/Spring 2024


1. Given an integer $n > 2$ , let $P$ stand for the proposition that $n$ is odd,
and $Q$ stand for the proposition that $n$ is prime. Which of the following is true?[^1]

   <ol type='a'>
        <li>$P$ is necessary for $Q$</li>
        <li>$Q$ is necessary for $P$</li>
        <li>$P$ is sufficient for $Q$</li>
        <li>$Q$ is sufficient for $P$</li>
   </ol>

---

**Solution [3/10]**: There is a problem with the wording of the question. The correct way to ask it would be "Indicate True or False". The true propositions are (i) and (iv). You will get **3pts**, if you hit at least one. If you selected at least one wrong proposition, you lose all the **3pts**.
Notice that whenever '$P$ is necessary for $Q$', it is automatically the case that '$Q$ is sufficient for $P$'. You probably get confused here, presumably because you read "$Q$ is sufficient for $P$" as something like "it is enough that $Q$ happens for $P$ to happen", or something similar. The correct way to read "$Q$ is sufficient for $P$" is: "it is sufficient to know that $Q$ is true in order to infer that $P$ is also true". Likewise, the correct way to read "$P$ is necessary for $Q$" is: "$Q$ cannot be true without $P$ being true". Again the relation is not causal but inferential.

---


[^1]: A prime number (or a prime) is a natural number greater than 1 that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. A natural number greater than 1 that is not prime is called a composite number. For example, 5 is prime because the only ways of writing it as a product, 1 × 5 or 5 × 1, involve 5 itself. However, 4 is composite because it is a product (2 × 2) in which both numbers are smaller than 4. (Wikipedia)


2. Express the choices of the previous question in logical notation (i.e. $P\rightarrow Q$, etc.)

---

**Solution [3/10]**:
It is enough to translate your choice to get **3pts**. The relation 'sufficient' directly stands for the '$\rightarrow$', and 'necessary' is the opposite, i.e., '<span>$P$ is necessary for $Q$</span>' translates to $Q\rightarrow P$. In case you did the previous question wrong but did the translation right, you again get **3pts**.

---



2. What does the following expression evaluate to?

```racket
(and (or (= (string-length "hello world")
            (string->number "11"))
         (string=? "hello world" "good morning"))
     (>= (+ (string-length "hello world") 60) 80))
```

---

**Solution [4/10]**:
You must be able to check the answer yourself.

---

