Quiz 04 (11/3) - COGS 501/Spring 2024
------------------------------------

1. **[3/10]** Given a set $A$ and two functions $f, g \subset A\times A$.
If you are told that $f\cup g$ is also a function, what did you learn now about
$f$ and $g$?

   ---
   **Solution:**

   Given that $f$ and $g$ are functions, we know this: For any $x\in A$, there exists exactly one pair with $x$ as the first component both in $f$ and in $g$. Let's take the pair in $f$ to be $(x,m)$ and the one in $g$ to be $(x,n)$. Now observe that if $m\neq n$, then there will be two pairs that asssiciate $x$ with two different elements in $f\cup g$. As we are given that $f\cup g$ is also a function, then $m$ and $n$ cannot be different elements, so $m=n$. Remember that we did this reasoning for an arbitrary $x\in A$. Therefore, whatever element of $A$ we will pick, we will discover that $f$ and $g$ will not be able to differ in the image they assign to that element. Therefore, if $f\cup g$ is a function, then $f=g$. 😳

   ---


1. **[3/10]** There are two-faced cards with a number on one face and a letter on the
   other. You are given the rule:  If a card has an even number on one face, it
   must have a consonant on the other. Four cards are laid on a table showing the faces
   `A K 4 7`. Which card or card(s) would you turn over to test whether the rule
   is followed or not?

   ---
   **Solution:**

   A correct pick in this question is a card that falls in the span of the rule, so that you can discover if the rule is    violated. Turning a card that the rule does not dictate anything about is useless, and therefore an incorrect response.    Those who laid there hands to `K` or `7` lose all the credit. `A` _and_ `4` gets full credit, those who picked only one    of this, without picking any useless card gets 1pt. Another way to think is this: assume you picked `K`. What are the       possibilities, (1) the other face has an odd number, well so what? "The rule is not violated" is all you can say. (2) you    had an even number on the other face. Again, all you can say is that "The rule is not violated". Therefore there is    nothing to learn from turning `K`. But, if you turn `A` and discover that there is an even number on the other face, you    can conclude that the rule is defunct. If your are intrigued by this question, google "wason selection".

   ---

1. **[4/10]** Given relations $R \subseteq A\times B$ and $S \subseteq B\times
   C$. Then the composite relation $S\circ R$ is the relation consisting of all
   ordered pairs of the form $(a, c)$, where $(a, b) \in R$ and $(b, c) \in S$.
   If $A = \\{p, q, r, s\\}$, $B = \\{a, b\\}$, $C = \\{1, 2, 3, 4\\}$, $R = \\{(p, a), (p,
   b), (q, b), (r, a), (s, a)\\}$ and $S = \\{(a, 1), (a, 2), (b, 4)\\}$, find $S\circ
   R$.

   ---
   **Solution**:

   It is best to iterate over $R$. First initiate a set named $S\circ R$, initially empty. Start with the first pair in $R$, namely $(p,a)$, then for every $x$ such thatthere exists a pair $(a,x)$ in $S$, add $(p,x)$ to to $S\circ R$. Repeat this for every element in $R$. 

   $$S\circ R = \\{(p,1),(p,2),(p,4),(q,4),(r,1),(r,2),(s,1),(s,2)\\}$$

   As long as you got the idea, a couple of typos shouldn't be a problem.

   Note: A nice exercise for those who took `LISP` is to implement this algorithm in `Racket`.

   ---
