Quiz 06 (25/3) - COGS 501/Spring 2024
------------------------------------

1. **[8/10]**
    
    Given $\|A\| = n$ and $\|B\| = m$, how many functions $f: A\rightarrow B$
    are there:[^1]

    <ol type="a">
        <li>that are one-to-one</il>
        <li>that are onto</li>
        <li>that are one-to-one and onto (temporarily asume that $m=n$)</li>
        <li>that has a range with exactly 3 elements (temporarily assume that $m\geq 3$)</il>
    </ol>

    --------
    **Solution**
    <ol type="a">
        <li>First observe that the range of $f$ must have $n$ elements.
        There are $\binom{m}{n}$ ways of deciding on which members
        of $B$ will be in the range of $f$. Then for each such selection, there
        are $n!$ ways of associating $A$'s elements with the chosen bunch.
        Therefore the answer is $\binom{m}{n}\cdot n!$.</il>
        <li>Well, most probably you couldn't solve this, and the final one. The
        reason is this: in an earlier version of this document I asked this
        question with explicit numbers, where it is possible, although a little
        tedious, to count functions. All you need is to take the total number of
        functions and subtract from it all the functions that leave elements out
        of the codomain. This is not hard when you have 2 or 3 elements in the
        codomain but impossible for larger codomains, unless, of course, you
        don't know some advanced techniques that we will cover in coming
        sessions. In a later version I switched to variables for cardinalities,
        and forgot that the problem is too advanced for the general solution.
        <b>Everyone gets full credit.</b></li>
        <li>Simply keep the elements of the domain fixed in a particular order,
        and permute the elements of the codomain. The answer is $m!$.</li>
        <li>The answer is $\binom{m}{3}$ multiplied by the number of onto
        functions from an $n$ element set to an $m$ element set, which you don't
        know how to compute at the moment. <b>Everyone gets full
        credit.</b></il>
    </ol>

    ----------

    [^1]: A function is one-to-one (or injective) if each member in its codomain is associated with one
    and only one member in its domain. In other words, no two member in the domain
    has the same image.<br/><br/>
    A function is onto (or surjective) if each member in its codomain is associated with at
    least one element in its domain.

1. **[2/10]**

    How many 4 digit numbers are there (i) constructed by digits
    from 1 to 9, (ii) digits do not repeat, and (iii) each digit is greater than
    the one on its left?

    --------
    **Solution**

    $\binom{9}{4}$

    ----------

1. 🤑 (**2pts**): In how many different ways can you divide 20 people into four-member
    groups?

    --------
    **Solution**

    You start forming groups, you do the first in $\binom{20}{4}$, the second
    in $\binom{16}{4}$, and so on. So you might think the answer is:

    $$\begin{align}
    \binom{20}{4}\cdot\binom{16}{4}\cdot\binom{12}{4}\cdot\binom{8}{4}\cdot\binom{4}{4}
    \end{align}$$


    But the problem is that our groups are not ordered and with the above method
    you count a certain grouping in $5!$ times. Therefore you need to divide the
    above number by $5!$. You lose half of the bonus if you missed the division.

    If you find the division part confusing, try the example over a simple
    domain. Take 4 people $\{a,b,c,d\}$ and divide it into groups of two.
    Without the division answer will be $\binom{4}{2}\cdot\binom{2}{2} = 6$. 
    Let's enumerate these 6 groupings:

    <ol>
    <il>\\{a,b\\}, \\{c,d\\}</il>
    <il>\\{a,c\\}, \\{b,d\\}</il>
    <il>\\{a,d\\}, \\{b,c\\}</il>
    <il>\\{b,c\\}, \\{a,d\\}</il>
    <il>\\{b,d\\}, \\{a,c\\}</il>
    <il>\\{c,d\\}, \\{a,b\\}</il>
    </ol>

    It is now clear that you are counting a grouping twice. In the general case,
    if you have $n$ groups, you will end up counting each particular grouping
    $n!$ times, because this is the number of ways you can order $n$ objects.
    ----------


