Quiz 07 (1/4) - COGS 501/Spring 2024
------------------------------------

1. **[10/10]** A coin is flipped 10 times where each flip comes up either heads or tails. How many possible outcomes
	<ol>
	<li type="a">are there in total?</li>
	<li type="a">contain exactly two heads?</li>
	<li type="a">contain at most three tails?</li>
	<li type="a">contain the same number of heads and tails?  </li>
	<li type="a">have at most 6 heads in a row?</li>
	</ol>

    --------
    **Solution**

    Each correct answer gets 2pts.

	<ol>
	<li type="a">2 choices for each of 10 positions: $2^{10}$.</li>
	<li type="a">All you need to decide is where to put that two heads: $\binom{10}{2}$.</li>
	<li type="a">Enumerate for the number of tails: $\binom{10}{0} + \binom{10}{1} + \binom{10}{2} + \binom{10}{3}$.</li>
	<li type="a">There will be 5 tails and 5 heads, pick one and decide how to place them: $\binom{10}{5}$.  </li>
	<li type="a">Subtract from the total the number of outcomes where there are
    more than 6 heads in a row. You can find the latter number by enumerating
    the cases. How many outcomes are there for 7 heads in a row? Treating this
    as a single symbol and counting the number of ways heads and tails distibute
    in the remaning 3 slots will not work, because we want the positions
    adjacent to the block of 7 heads to be either a tail or string boundary. We need to enumerate the cases.

    Block of 7 heads:

    1. block starts at position 1, then the 8th position must be a tail, the
       remaining 2 positions yield 4 outcomes.
    1. block starts at position 2, then position 1 and position 9 are tails,
       there remains the final position which can be filled in 2 ways.
    1. block starts at position 3, the case is identical to b, there are 2
       outcomes.
    1. block starts at position 4, the case is identical to a, there are 4
       outcomes.

    For a block of 7 heads, we have $4 + 2 + 2 + 4=12$ outcomes.

    Block of 8 heads:

    There are 5 outcomes in total.

    Block of 9 heads:

    2 outcomes.

    Block of 10 heads:

    1 outcome.

    The answer is $2^{10} - 20$.

    Please check my answer as an exercise. If the reasoning is correct but there
    is a mistake in calculations, you get 1pt.
    </li>
	</ol>

    ----------

1. 💎 **2pts** How many integer solutions are there to the equation $x + y + z =
   8$ for which $x$, $y$ and $z$ are all greater than $-3$?

    ------------
    **Solution**
    
    This is Levin's 1.5.5c, with a slight modification. Define the following
    equalities: $x = x' - 2$, $y = y' - 2$, $z = z' - 2$. Now the original
    formula becomes:

    $$x' - 2 + y' - 2 + z' - 2 = 8$$

    When $x'$, $y'$ and $z'$ are zero, $x$, $y$ and $z$ will be -2. Therefore,
    if we can find the number of solutions to the equation with primed variables,
    we will have found a solution to the original equation with the desired
    condition, namely that $x$, $y$ and $z$ are greater than -3. We turn the
    primed equation into:

    $$x' + y'  + z'  = 14$$


    whose solution is $\binom{16}{14}$.
    -------------
