Quiz 08 (15/4) - COGS 501/Spring 2024
------------------------------------

1. **[5/10]** You have 10 different t-shirts. You want to wear 4 of these in the next 7 days. Each of
   the 4 you picked must be worn at least in one day, and each day you must wear
   one of these 4 t-shirts. In how many different ways can this be accomplished?

    ---------
    **Solution**

    First, you have  $\binom{10}{4}$ ways to decide which t-shirts to wear.
    Then, you should find yourself wanting to count all the possible onto
    functions that pair each day with one and only one t-shirt. The functions
    you count need to be onto, because you do not want to leave any t-shirt
    unworn. The answer, therefore is, $\binom{10}{4}\cdot \sum_{r=0}^4 (-1)^r
    \binom{4}{r}\cdot (4-r)^7$. 

    ------------

1. **[5/10]** How many one-to-one (injective) functions $f: A \rightarrow B$ are there if $\|A\| = m$ and $\|B\|=n$, for $m\geq n$?      

    --------------
    **Solution**

    Unfortunately -- or fortunately, depending on from where you look at it, the
    question has a typo in its condition. It should have been $m\leq n$, if
    $m\geq n$, then there can be no one-to-one function from $A$ to $B$, since
    there is not enough elements in $B$ for a one-to-one mapping. **Everyone
    gets 5pts**, for this reason.

    If the question had a correct condition, the answer would be as follows.
    First, observe that when $m=n$, there would be $m!$ one-to-one functions.
    This is so because if you fix the elements of the domain or codomain in a
    certain order, you can obtain all possible pairings by permuting the
    elements of the other set. When $m\leq n$, you first need to choose which
    elements in the co-domain will be in the range. You can decide this in
    $\binom{n}{m}$ ways. Therefore the answer is $\binom{n}{m}\cdot m!$. 


    ---------------

1. 💎 **3pts** You have 5 drawers in a drawer chest and 10 different t-shirts to put
   into these drawers. You can leave any number of drawers empty as you like. In how
   many different ways can you arrange the shirts into these 5 drawers? The order of
   the t-shirts in a drawer is important.

    ----------------
    **Solution**
    
    If the question had not involved drawers, the answer would have been $10!$,
    since thats the number of ways you can put 10 t-shirts on top of each other.
    Observe that for each such ordering, you have $\binom{14}{4}$ ways to
    partition the t-shirts into 5 drawers. If you cannot see the latter part,
    think like this. You have a sequence of 10 t-shirts arranged as a pile. Your
    task is to divide these t-shirts into 5 drawers. I give you 4 cards to
    insert into the pile of t-shirts. For the first card, all the t-shirts that
    remain on top of that card go to the top-most drawer. Notice that you can
    place your first card on the top of the pile, which means no t-shirt goes to
    the top-most drawer. Now all the t-shirts that end up between the first and
    second card go to the second drawer, and all between second and third got to
    the third drawer, and all between third and fourth card go to the fourth
    drawer, and all remaining under the fourth card go to the fifth
    drawer. This is equivalent to inserting 4 ones in anywhere you like in a
    sequence of 10 zeros. Or, making up a bitstring of length 14 with weight 4,
    which is $\binom{14}{4}$. The answer, therefore, is $10!\cdot\binom{14}{4}$.

    ----------------
