---
title: "COGS 501 Quiz"
author: []
date: "2025-11-06"
keywords: []
...

1. **[2pts\*]**Translate the following into first order logic:
	1. Every student in this class has submitted at least one assignment.
		- S(x): "x is a student in this class"
		- A(x, y): "x has submitted assignment y"
$$
			\begin{align}
			\forall x (S(x) \to \exists y A(x,y))
			\end{align}
$$
	1. There is a professor who teaches every student in this class.
		- P(x): "x is a professor"
		- S(y): "y is a student in this class"
		- T(x, y): "x teaches y"
$$
			\begin{align}
			\exists x (P(x) \land \forall y (S(y) \to T(x,y)))
			\end{align}
$$
1. **[1pt]** Complete the missing parts of the following function:
```python
def sum_naturals(n):
    """Return the sum of the first n natural numbers."""
    total, k = 0, 1
    while k <= n:
		# Your code here
    	total, k = total + k, k + 1
		# End of your code
    return total
```

1. **[2pts\*]** Simplify the function `seclarge` as much as you can by making use of the function `max`. Remember that `max` takes two numbers as arguments and returns the larger one.
		<br/>
		Here is one way to do it:
	```python
	def seclarge(x, y, z):
			"""Return the second largest of three numbers."""

			if x >= max(y,z):
					return max(y, z)
			elif y >= max(x,z):
					return max(x,z)
			elif z >= max(x,y):
					return max(x,y)
	```
		Note the switch from `>` to `>=`. Without it there will be incorrect output for certain cases, can you see which?<br/>
		We can do better than this. Think about for some time. Do we need the check `z >= max(x,y)`? <br/>
		We actually don't. At the point control reaches the second `elif` in the above code, we already know that `x` is less than `y`, or `z` or both. We also know that `y` is less than `z`, because if it were not, it should have been greater than or equal to the maximum of `z` and `x`. Therefore, we can safely say that `z` is the largest of the three. All we need at that point is to return the maximum of `x` and `y`. Here is the code:
	```python
	def seclarge2(x, y, z):
		"""Return the second largest of three numbers."""

    if x > max(y,z):
            return max(y, z)
    elif y > max(x,z):
            return max(x, z)
    else:
        return max(x, y)
	```
		Also note that we can switch back to `>` from `>=` with this solution.
		<br/>
		There is still room for improvement. We compute `max(y,z)` and `max(x,z)` twice each in the above code. We can store them in variables to avoid recomputing them. Here is the final code:
	```python
	def seclarge3(x, y, z):
			"""Return the second largest of three numbers."""
			yz = max(y,z)
			xz = max(x,z)
			if x > yz:
					return yz
			elif y > xz:
					return xz
			else:
					return max(x,y)
	```
		Can you think of any further improvements? Is there a version that makes fewer comparisons?







